Klerksdorp&rsquo;s Schoonspruit High School was crowned the winner of the 2016 GreenpowerZA Electric Car Challenge, held at the Red Star Raceway this weekend. The race challenges schools to bring their self-built electric cars to the track, in an effort to create interest in the subjects of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Entry fees vary from R57 000 for high schools participating in the Formula 24 category, to R37 000 for primary schools to enter the Goblin category. The entry fee ensures the schools are provided with a kit to build their electric cars. The schools are allowed to keep their cars and race them again the next year. The teams can be of any size, but preferably not less than ten learners. This year, Schoonspruit High School was crowned the winner of the Formula 24 endurance race. In this category, the teams had to complete as many laps as possible in 90 minutes. Technical High School Pretoria Tuine took the lead in the first 35 minutes of the race, but the learners from Schoonspruit High School understood that the race was not about speed, but distance. As the teams could only use two 12 V batteries during the race, learners had to calculate the appropriate race-strategy, taking into account distance, speed and battery power, in order to drive for the full 90 minutes. The winning team completed more than 70 laps in the 90-minute period. Louis Leipoldt Primary School was the winner of the first ever Goblin race. The electric vehicles in this race also used two 12 V batteries as their power source. The Goblin race consisted of three activities, namely speed racing (a race at the highest running speed); drag racing (an acceleration contest over a distance of 80 m) and a slalom race (a race that followed a zigzag course). Teachers and parents were only allowed to assist in the primary school category. GreenpowerZA is a nonprofit organisation. &ldquo;The future of engineering skills in South Africa is in our hands. We believe that this unique STEM-driven education initiative will ignite learners&rsquo; imaginations and understanding, giving them the knowledge and confidence to increase participation in engineering and advanced manufacturing, which is vital to the future of our economy,&rdquo; says GreenpowerZA COO Mari Lee. &ldquo;Ever since I joined the GreenpowerZA project I&#39;ve learned a lot; how to assemble different parts, how to do wiring and how to figure out problems,&rdquo; adds Thapelo Kgaripane from&nbsp;Ingqayizivele High School. &ldquo;I now know the basics of mechanical and electrical engineering, I am even thinking about pursuing a career in engineering one day.&rdquo; &nbsp;