Natural gas supplier Novo Energy on Friday launched its compressed natural gas (CNG) dispensing station in Kew. This project is the company&rsquo;s first commercial facility in Johannesburg. The station will support the City of Johannesburg in its objective of enabling economic development, job creation and sustainability. &ldquo;One of the major challenges the country faces is job creation and we feel that gas is fundamental in creating jobs and getting the economy going again. It&rsquo;s the only energy carrier that can reindustrialise South Africa,&rdquo; Novo Energy CEO Andri Hugo told Engineering News Online. Novo Energy has entered into an agreement with the Gauteng Department of Infrastructure Development (GDID) to supply CNG to the Gauteng Department of Health. The GDID has identified natural gas as a cheaper, cleaner and a more efficient energy source to achieve the desired results in the implementation of the province&rsquo;s &lsquo;green&rsquo; agenda. Hugo noted that the Novo Kew CNG station would predominantly supply CNG to Gauteng&rsquo;s various health institutes, using mobile delivery systems. &ldquo;The City of Johannesburg is converting a fair amount of its hospitals to run on natural gas and this facility will support and supply those hospitals,&rdquo; he explained. The dispensing station will also double as a gas refuelling station for natural gas-fuelled vehicles (NGVs). The dispensing station was strategically located in close proximity to Sandton and the township of Alexandra. This is to encourage public transport operators, fleet owners and private individuals to use CNG as an alternative source of fuel for their vehicles. The City of Johannesburg recently acquired NGVs for its municipal fleet and there are hundreds of NGVs operating within the city. The Novo Kew CNG station will provide the infrastructure to refuel these vehicles. CNG will retail at R7.99/l and Novo Energy believes taxi operators, for instance, will see an immediate savings of around 35% on their fuel spend by converting to natural gas. &ldquo;Apart from the economic benefits that can be attained, most fleet owners are also seeing increased longevity of their vehicle assets by operating their vehicles with a much cleaner fuel compared to petrol.&rdquo; The station has been designed using compression equipment and includes the integration of modern process technology. Novo plans to roll out various CNG stations in strategic locations across the country in years to come. &ldquo;This facility provides clean and affordable energy to industry. We are proud to be part of this collective and we feel there are tremendous opportunities going forward,&rdquo; said Hugo.