JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; South Africa&rsquo;s mining problem has been the failure of accountable and transparent regulation, with the desire to achieve race transformation leading to secrecy. If mining licences had to be applied for publicly on the Internet and the Department of Mineral Resources had to, in turn, respond publicly, much of the problem would be solved. But from both sides, South Africans have abused race to create phoney partnerships and phoney transactions, often in darkness. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s what we now need to fix,&rdquo; Business Leadership South Africa chairperson Bobby Godsell said to applause in response to a question from the floor at Wednesday&rsquo;s African Mining Network dinner, attended by Creamer Media&rsquo;s Mining Weekly Online. The former AngloGold Ashanti&nbsp; CEO saw no reason why the State cannot regulate minerals in an open, accountable and honest way and said in responding to the question on how much-needed minerals exploration could be stimulated, that a major public role was needed to start exploration off by providing information on where different minerals are or may be, and the private sector then investing in the realisation of their commercial value. He believed it possible to establish public-private exploration partnerships in which every private-sector mining activity enhanced the basic public knowledge of South Africa and Africa&rsquo;s mineral resources while still allowing companies to preserve their commercial interests. In this he drew from his mining involvement in the Russian Federation, where major investment in geological surveys by the previous Soviet Union has resulted in a better sense of mineralisation but, in the absence of a market economy, a very poor sense of commercial value, remedied by the Russian Federation having publicly available mineralisation data and commercial application taking place through openly contested auctions. As guest the African Mining Network&rsquo;s guest speaker, Godsell identified the five steps that mining must take to ensure that it is a blessing as: He contended that the sharing of risk and reward needed to cover the risks of exploration, the volatility of commodity prices and health and safety, and the rewards coming into effect for operational outperformance, good commodity prices and geological windfalls. He criticised those who sometimes refer to developing-county mining as a curse, but never denigrating resource in that way when referring to Britain&rsquo;s Industrial Revolution or America&rsquo;s discovery of oil. He described the use of mineral resources as being central to the industrialisation and urbanisation of every country while conceding that resources can also be used badly, which Africa must avoid at all costs as its population of more than a billion people is crying out for cities with electricity, water, rail and roads, which will require widespread positive use of its many minerals.