National Gazelles, a small and medium-sized (SME) business growth accelerator programme, has opened a new applications window for SMEs wanting to join the programme. National Gazelles, which is a partnership between the Small Enterprise Development Agency and the Department of Small Business Development, will select 40 high-potential, existing enterprise applicants in February following a stringent selection process. The aim of the programme was to prepare an already established business with future prospects and take it the next level, as opposed to nurturing companies during the start-up phase, National Gazelles acceleration programme director Zukile Nomafu explained at the inaugural MTN Business digital entrepreneur masterclass, held in Randburg, on Thursday. The National Gazelles 2016 window saw the selection of three firms in the agriculture and agroprocessing industry; six in energy and the green economy; 14 in manufacturing; two in transport and logistics; five in construction and development; five in health and biosciences; one in mining, metals and resources; five in information and communications technology (ICT); and two in tourism and hospitality. The national SME growth accelerator helps SMEs that are in the &ldquo;valley of death&rdquo; period post the two- to three-year or 1 000-day mark that many new start-ups fail to surpass. There was a need to start focusing on the growth of businesses in an accelerator hub, as opposed to new business and start-ups in incubators, thereby enabling already established companies to grow, Nomafu commented. In line with this, National Gazelles&rsquo; three-year pilot, now moving into its second year, is now open for its next batch of 40 entrepreneurs, with applications closing November 22. &ldquo;[Applicants] need to have been in business for at least two years, have a turnover of at least R1-million, and at least two full-time employees,&rdquo; he added. As not all SMEs generated the jobs required to kickstart the economy, Nomafu said the programme has tabled its preferred top ten industries, including transport and logistics; tourism; agriculture; construction; ICT; manufacturing; health and biosciences; energy, environment and green economy and mining, metals and engineering. &ldquo;The programme aims to assist each business to operate as closely as possible to its maximum potential. &ldquo;Growth acceleration support is guided by a detailed business diagnostic and growth strategy, and includes a R1-million growth grant for equipment and capacity-building, facilitated access to finance, productivity and business advice, business skills development and more,&rdquo; the National Gazelles outlines on its website.